+++
title = "E-Mail"
date = 2018-06-15T13:41:30Z
draft = false

tags = ["techlab"]

summary = ''

[header]
image = "headers/email.png"
caption = "E-Mail"
+++

For many people, e-mail is taking up a significant portion of their work time. A lot of this time is spent sorting through an enormous amount of unread e-mail received every day, filtering out what needs to be read and what needs to be answered. This inevitably leads to e-mails that are not read by the end of the day. This starts a vicious circle of accumulating unread e-mails, and can end up in thousands of unread e-mails.

Over the years, I developed a setup that allows me to no unread e-mails at the end of the day. It is based on three basic principles

1. Filter e-mails intelligently to reduce the time to sort through unread e-mail and only read the important ones.
2. Answer e-mails immediately if it takes you less than 2 min.
3. Establish a task list of the remaining e-mails that need to be answered, and mark them read.

In practice, I am using 4 categories of e-mails populated through server-side filter rules. The rules are based on identifiers of e-mail lists, specific senders, or keywords in subject or body of the e-mails. The filter rules move e-mails in corresponding folders or set corresponding labels:

1. E-mails directly send to me (my e-mail address in "to" or "cc" or "bcc") are kept in the inbox
2. E-mails that I am interested in from specific e-mail lists or forums are filtered into the category "Important"
3. E-mails to all other lists or forums are filtered into the category "Unread"
4. E-mails like electronic logbook messages, log messages and other automated e-mails from diverse systems are filtered into the "E-log" category

I then establish my task-list of e-mails I have to answer later using GTD ("Getting Things Done", http://amzn.com/0143126563) and a task application that is following the GTD philosophy. It is really important that you can create a new task entry with a link back to the e-mail in question directly from your e-mail program or e-mail web interface. I am currently using the gmail web access, a bookmarklet and [todoist.com](todoist.com).

When I read e-mails, I start with the Inbox, answer all e-mails that need less than 2 minutes of my attention, and open tasks for the remaining e-mails in [todoist.com](todoist.com). Due to the heavy filtering (I have hundreds of filter rules), my inbox is usually empty or only holds a few e-mails. A side effect of the heavy filtering, you don't get many notifications for new e-mails if you only receive alarms for new e-mails in your inbox.

* I then continue with the "Important" category and treat them the same as my inbox. But I don’t read “Important” e-mails as often as my e-mails in the inbox.
* For all unread e-mails in the "Unread" category, I scan the subjects, read what interests me, and mark the rest as read without reading the e-mails.
* And for all unread e-mails in the "E-Log" category, I mark all e-mails read per default without looking at them and only go back using the search function if I need to.

I read my e-mails in the Inbox very frequently, also because I get notifications when a new e-mail arrives. I read the "Important" category 3-4 times a day or if time allows. I go through the unread e-mails in the "Unread" category twice per day. And I mark all e-mails in the "E-Log" category read at the end of the day.

Of course the focus shifts from working on unread e-mails to prioritizing and working through your task list. But it gives you peace of mind that you are not missing something important.
